NARRATOR:
Previously on Hill Street Blues...
Gina doesn't want me.
Henry doesn't want you.
We're leftovers.
I happen to be in love with Gina, Fay.
Love? Is that what they're
calling it these days, Henry?
I haven't had time to do a whole lot
in the way of decorating yet.
That's perfectly understandable.
Get behind my funding request
for the SEVM prototype.
Now, that's the
Strategic Entry Vehicle Modification.
Yeah, I know about it,
and I don't want us behind it, Howard.
I don't want us anywhere near it.
RENKO: Mick?
-(indistinct shouting)
-Mick! Get out of here, Mick!
-(clattering)
-(screams)
-HUNTER: This is the police!
-We're the police!
What I'd like to do is suggest
we all go out to dinner tonight.
Are you nuts?
I know why you didn't like me.
Why, because you're young
and beautiful and rich?
-(glass clinking)
-Whoa!
-Hey.
-FAY: Watch it!
-(gunshots)
-(screaming)
(clattering)
Item 11, starting today,
I'm asking all sector-C patrols
to include the lots next to the
Case and Western freight yards
on their pass-bys.
Seems we got a Hooverville all of our own
springing up over there.
People living in storage cases,
boxes, all kinds of things.
Also, we're getting incident reports
from the neighborhood merchants.
So that's continuing
until otherwise notified, okay?
All sector-C patrols.
Item 12, undercovers.
Detective Belker is at Hal's 3-hour French
cleaners and tailors over on Rosemont,
which we've pegged for moving warm
and counterfeit-labeled garments.
Also, Detectives Mayo
and Garibaldi continue prep
on Operation Salsa,
false documentation sales to aliens.
Item 13 is an attaboy
to Sergeant Lucille Bates,
who spotted famed purse snatcher
Virgil "Road Runner" Lentson
four storefronts. She still beat him
to the Stinson overpass.
(all cheering, applauding)
The only-- the only casualty
of this collar being
that the sarge turned her ankle.
-ALL: Oh!
-So because of her temporary layup,
-Jablonski is coming out of mothballs.
-OFFICER 1: What?
Yeah, Sergeant Bates is gonna be
running the squad room today,
and yours truly is gonna be riding
with Joe Coffey.
(clamoring)
RUDY: Hey! They recommissioned
the New Jersey, didn't they?
Yeah, and it sank.
Item 14, Lieutenants Calletano and Hunter
take their captaincy exams today.
I know that we all wish them well.
And Item 15 is a welcome
to Detective Phil Dugan over there,
center back of the room.
Now, Detective Dugan
is a transfer from Midtown.
He's gonna be working warrants
with LaRue and Washington
until we can make a permanent pairing.
Welcome to the Hill, Detective.
Okay, that's it.
-Let's get out there.
-Excuse me, Sergeant.
-STAN: What?
-Can we hold it a moment, please?
Wait a minute, wait a minute.
Uh... this is from Division.
"In accordance with the terms
of the PBA Contract Agreement,
"the shift of this precinct
has been selected at random
"for drug toxicity testing.
"Please make urine samples available
"to the medical technicians
who are stationed upstairs
-for collection and analysis."
-(clamoring)
Okay, that's it.
Let's go upstairs.
Let's, uh... let's urinate.
Uh... let's, uh, let's have a good shift.
-You know why I didn't call, Patsy?
-'Cause you're a bum.
'Cause I'm a bum.
You know it's "eat with a bum" week?
I don't think so.
Come on, forgive me.
You'll be a better person.
See? You're feeling better!
You're letting it go.
"...will submit to testing
for a controlled or illegal substance
as deemed appropriate by Command."
MAN: Have asparagus last night, Raymondo?
BOBBY: Yeah, let me see that.
Let me take a look at that.
Fill and cap this, please,
and return it to me.
Just peachy.
They're saying that
they don't need cause, right?
They can just ask us out of thin air.
I always thought
"deemed appropriate action"
was when you come in with your eyeballs
-swimming around your head like this.
-(laughs)
I'm gonna talk to my law professor.
I don't think they can do this.
-Jablonski, S.
-MAN: Thank you.
-Let's hit the street, Joseph!
-Right away, Sarge.
Fill and cap this and return it to me.
Listen, you think you could
red-light the guys behind me
-till I come out?
-Excuse me?
LaRue, J.
-And if--
-I have--
Come on, Joe. Let's not make it more
of a production than it already is.
Still nothing?
HENRY: You know something,
Detective Torriello?
I think you're lying.
You've got more than you're telling me.
I think if you don't have more
after three weeks,
-you're a lousy excuse for a cop.
-Henry.
-Right with you.
-Now!
Listen, I want you to call me
this afternoon, Detective.
Not if you get anything!
I want you to call me either way.
What?
You're gonna have to stop
harassing Midtown.
It's like the murder never happened.
Gina's dead three weeks.
I don't even know
where they're taking the investigation.
That's policy, and you know it.
Look, I know you're hurting--
-Save the goo. Am I doing my job?
-That's not the point.
It's the only point
you get to make, Frank.
I'm doing my job.
You leave the rest of it the hell alone.
WOMAN (on radio):
Dispatch. We have a 9-11.
Armed robbery in progress.
See Surplus Store,
corner People's Drive and 124th Street.
(sirens wailing)
(theme music playing)
-MAN: Fill it to the line and cap it.
-Bates, Lucille.
Sarge, how come you're not out
of here on the street yet?
Joe's having trouble relieving himself.
He's loading up the tank.
Howard, Howard, whatever our differences,
I wish you only good luck
in the interview.
(chuckles) Well, buena suerte
back to you, Raymondo.
These are as many of the questions
I could remember
from earlier interviews.
Feel free to look at them.
Judas, this goes back
to the Carter administration.
I just got off the phone
with my law professor,
and he says this urinalysis thing
is in violation of our
Fifth Amendment rights.
Agreement to test is in the PBA contract.
What? I mean, a cop is not a citizen?
A cop has less rights than a citizen?
Come on, Captain!
I think it's a good directive.
If cops are using,
Command ought to know about it.
Okay, but they can't just come in
here at any time they want--
You're barking up the wrong tree, Harry.
Oh, that's great. Welcome to Russia.
Think we can move Joe Biomonte's warrant
to the head of the class, fellas?
Case comes up
with the grand jury tomorrow.
Hey, look. We've been trying Biomonte
for six weeks now.
Now, the guy, he knows he's hot.
He's hiding.
Simple, friendly inquiry, Detective.
-Everyone give?
-Cup and a half.
Waiting for the line to shorten up.
What'd your teacher say, Harry?
That it's probably illegal.
Furillo isn't interested.
I got to make a phone call.
-Neal, you okay?
-Yeah.
Isn't this lame? Doesn't this stink?
You know what we ought to do, J.D.?
We ought to play a joke on them
and mix up our whiz.
Party down a little heavy
last night, Harry?
Great timing.
I'm with a hippy-dip stewardess.
I take three tokes of reefer.
Is there any way you can
help me out, J.D.?
What's the matter?
We're gonna have to bring in
Henry Goldblume from the cold
on the Sgrignoli killing
pretty soon, Irwin.
-He's a loose cannon.
-Then tell him that.
Tell him there's been progress,
but he hasn't been cleared
for the particulars.
And have him go totally renegade?
Frank, we know he's running a separate
investigation right now.
FRANK: Then how much longer?
We're still working on
some of the things--
How long, Irwin?
I don't know. It goes a lot of places.
I saw Phil Dugan's on the transfer list.
What about him?
His name came up
in the Keenan investigation,
-but it didn't go anywhere.
-FRANK: It came up how?
Uh, Keenan was Dugan's rabbi.
It didn't go anyplace.
I know Henry's your friend.
I know what it must
feel like stonewalling.
When it's over, I'll run it for him myself
chapter and verse.
I got your sample.
There's going and there's going.
I got to make number two.
Yeah, what do we do with this thing?
Fill it to the line, seal it,
return it to me.
Okay, got you.
-(toilet flushing)
-(Joe sighs)
Hey, Joe.
You believe this? This is so humiliating.
-J.D.?
-J.D.: Standing by.
Coming over.
Any progress?
Sarge, I think it's coming any second now.
HARRY (whispers): J.D.? J.D.!
What's going on over there?
Nothing, Sarge.
J.D. just forgot his bottle.
J.D. was in here before. He went with me.
What are you two doing?
We figured we'd play a little joke
on them, Sarge.
-LaRue!
-J.D.: Sarge.
Give me that container.
Out!
Over there.
Go. You too.
(zipper unzips)
(sighs)
Lieutenant, would you say that
you were the guiding force
behind fielding that battering ram
for use in drug arrests?
(chuckles) Well, I weren't agin' it.
Well, Chief Daniels
"weren't agin' it," either.
Oh, I call Chief Daniels' support
farsighted and paramount.
WARREN: Uh,
how'd your captain feel about it?
Well, Captain Furillo was not a fan
of this particular acquisition.
Pulled a little end run around
Captain Furillo, Lieutenant?
Well, I don't know
if I'd call it an end run.
WARREN: He, uh, he didn't want it.
You knew you were right.
Showed a little initiative,
went right to the chief.
Well, gentlemen,
I take a back seat to no one
in my personal and professional admiration
of Captain Furillo.
I think if the captain
has a single blind spot
in his professional outlook,
it may be in staying absolutely
current on hardware.
I'm proud to say that in that area,
I am the captain's eyes.
Oh, I didn't mean to hog, fellas.
I think I've got enough.
-That's it?
-Thank you, Lieutenant.
It's my pleasure, gentlemen.
How did it go, Howard?
-Aced it.
-WARREN: Lieutenant Calletano?
-Ah, Lieutenant. Come in, have a seat.
-(glass pouring)
You know, uh,
Captain Leder, Captain Wilson.
How do you do? How do you do?
-Would you like some water?
-Thank you, no.
I have an opening statement
I would like to make.
(Ray clears throat)
I want this job very much.
Is it better if I don't read
an opening statement?
It's a-- it's a bit unusual, Lieutenant,
but, uh, that's your choice.
It's all right.
No. Please begin with the questions.
-Thank you. I think I will.
-(glass pouring)
-(clattering)
-Oh, I'm sorry!
-I'm terribly sorry!
-Uh, that's all right, Lieutenant.
It's-it's all right. It-it missed me.
Don't worry.
Lieutenant, sit down, relax. Okay?
(water splashing)
(siren wailing)
(tires screeching)
Tie up my telephone.
I let you use my toilet all the time
at the end of my busy night.
I gotta bag my garbage up
at 7:00 in the morning!
Here. Here comes the cops now.
You tell those buddies
in Boxtown that you messed with.
Police officers! Put the gun down!
-Here.
-Put it down!
Yeah, you're gonna get shot or busted.
All right. Let him alone! Let him alone!
He robbed me! He stole my papers!
You got a permit for this thing?
Get it out.
Yeah, I got a permit.
Get the change off him.
Whatever change he's got
in his pocket is mine.
Forty cents of this is mine!
All right, just calm down.
I'm just checking for a weapon, all right?
I got 40 cents from the aluminum.
If you're gonna take me in,
at least let me take it to my wife.
-You better calm down.
-She ain't got no money, man!
She all by herself.
I got four little kids.
How many papers did he steal?
Uh, look at 'em. He broke in there.
He took them all before I got here.
How many papers did he steal?
-Twelve. He got 12 of 'em.
-Twelve. That's three dollars.
-You want to press charges? Three dollars.
-Hell, yes, man!
-These people from Boxville...
-(groans)
...they been breaking in,
robbing and doing everything.
She's by herself. She ain't got no money.
All right,
we'll just do it as fast as we can.
Come along with me, Mr. Sodowski.
-I got to lose time now?
-RENKO: Yes, you do.
And let me tell you one more thing,
if you shoot an individual on a petty,
little crime like this,
there ain't no way
the police are gonna protect you.
You are gone! Now come on!
I'm shy, okay?
I can't just go on command.
Ah, forget about it, Joe.
People got their quirks.
Yeah, now everybody knows mine.
You know what I do?
I imagine a bowling ball
rolling down an alley.
Gets me started every time.
Educate me, Joe.
Where are the action joints?
See the chicken-and-rib place?
-Yeah.
-Numbers.
(chuckles) They can carry on all they like
about drugs and prostitution.
I still say policy is money-maker
number one with the wise guys.
WOMAN (on radio):
Any unit vicinity 112th and Jerome.
Robbery in progress. Corales Mini Mart.
-Unit 2203 responding.
-(siren wailing)
WOMAN: Roger 2203, code three.
-(siren wails)
-(tires screeching)
-(pounds)
-That-that's crazy. Back up.
-(tires screeching)
-(siren wailing)
(rattling)
(groans)
MAN: Catch him!
Thief! Thief!
-That's enough!
-I'll kill him! I'll kill him!
Hey, hey, hey, hey! You pipe down already!
-You all right, Sarge?
-Yeah.
-Kick him! Kick him!
-Secure the suspect.
JOE: Hey! I'm gonna pop you, too!
Now shut up!
You pop me, I pop him. I pop him good!
Got to get you running some
wind sprints, Sarge.
Yeah. Yeah, I guess so.
Good Lord Almighty,
will you look at this mess?
Look at these people.
Yeah, I know.
Excuse me, uh, are you Mrs. Jackson?
On top.
Jackson? Mrs. Jackson?
-You Mrs. Jackson?
-What happened to Pablo?
Nothing happened, ma'am.
He didn't get hurt or anything.
But he's, uh, under arrest
down at Hill Street.
What he do?
Ma'am, he's accused
of stealing some newspapers.
He asked us to come down and tell you.
He said he'd try to make it back tonight.
Will they let him out?
We don't know that yet, ma'am.
It depends whether they set bail or not.
Ma'am, if he can't get out,
I think maybe you should get the kids
and-and take them down
to the city shelter.
-Well, he said that he didn't want you--
-(train rumbles)
He didn't want you down here by yourself.
No, no, no, they'll...
they'll take my children from me.
-They separate the families there.
-BOBBY: Ma'am, you don't understand.
Mr. Jackson doesn't want you
down here alone.
We paid our rent first of every month,
and we still got evicted!
The man we paid didn't pay the landlord.
We ain't got no address.
We can't get no welfare check.
No check, I can't get my man out.
Now we ain't done nothing wrong!
We ain't done nothing wrong!
This isn't right!
Come on.
-Come on.
-(mumbling)
Davenport, I believe these
intake files are yours.
Hey, it's got to be your computers.
I'm telling you I paid those tickets!
All right, this is good.
Then we'll straighten it out.
Leo, traffic warrants.
Let's take a shot at this Biomonte.
Hey, we told you the guy
went underground, Phil.
Then we'll blow some smoke up his tunnel.
-Uh, Miss Davenport?
-JOYCE: Officers?
Have you done an intake yet
on a Pablo Jackson?
Second on my list.
Can you take a quick look and see
if they might release on recognizance?
-No address.
-That's because--
Well, he doesn't have a permanent address
'cause he got evicted.
And then the man they gave the money
to was a lessor, and he didn't turn it in.
And then they got cut off welfare.
And now he's living out
in Boxville by the tracks,
with his wife and four children.
The theft is a small amount,
but without an address,
I think the probation department
will probably recommend bail
instead of OR release.
-Can't save the world.
-Sometimes you can't even flag it down.
-I'll push hard for the OR.
-Thanks, ma'am.
(clamoring)
Well, look at this.
Sarge got himself a great big perp!
-I was just a spectator.
-Malarkey! He was great.
Hey, Joe.
-(imitates water running)
-That's not funny, Renko.
-What have you got, Lonnie?
-More goose eggs, Lieutenant.
-Nobody's got nothing on that hit.
-Stay on it.
I'm telling you, it was an outfit whack.
Out-of-town talent.
-Stay on it.
-I feel bad taking your bread, Lieutenant.
Fay, what's this note?
"Does Mrs. Furillo want to reschedule?"
You canceled the appointment
with the hypnotist?
Hi, Henry.
And, yes, I canceled the appointment
-that you made without telling me.
-HENRY: Fay.
Henry, I am not going under anymore.
It didn't work the first time.
I didn't come up with a single thing
about the shooting that
I hadn't already remembered.
And once is your limit.
That's as far as you'll go to find a guy
who guns down a woman
at your dinner table?
Whether you realize it or not,
the shooting was traumatic for me, too.
I know how painful this is for you,
but I think it's time you asked yourself
whether this one-man crusade of yours
wasn't getting obsessive.
I've got too many other
questions to ask, Fay.
-FAY: Hi, Harry.
-Hi, Mrs. Furillo.
Mrs. Furillo?
I mean, just because we stopped dating,
it doesn't have to be Mrs. Furillo.
I'm sorry, Fay.
-(Fay gasps) Oh!
-Oh!
-Would you watch where you're going?
-MAN: Right, sorry.
PHIL: No, I'm not kidding!
Every year, we draw four names
from the flight manifests
to Las Vegas.
Was your husband in Vegas
the past 12 months, Mrs. Biomonte?
We draw the winners,
and we bring them on our sister ships
the Shasta, and the McKinley.
See, we want people
to find out for themselves.
There's nothing they can do in Vegas
they can't do on our luxurious ships,
with the full casinos.
And plus, we got the ocean.
Ma'am, he won five grand
and a 21-day cruise. That's correct.
Could you put the lucky man on?
Are you kidding, Mrs. Biomonte? Geez. No.
He's got to come down to our agency.
Our manager, Mr. Furillo,
has got to make the presentation.
(chuckles)
Mrs. Biomonte, if your husband
doesn't call us back within half an hour,
we've got to go to our alternate names.
You think you could do that?
Hold on. I'll give you our number.
-We got a blind number?
-Yeah.
Ma'am, it's JL5-4712. Right.
Got to be inside half an hour, Mrs. B.
Philip Dugan, that's correct. Attagirl.
Joe Biomonte. Psh!
Want to make the presentation, Captain?
It was awful.
I bent over to light her cigarette,
and it sounded like a cannon
exploded behind me.
See, there's no material left to let out.
So, what I would do,
I would put a gusset in these
and buy a new pair
with a somewhat larger size.
Come here.
Yeah, but I'm gonna lose weight.
Well, when you lose the weight,
you can take them in.
We got some lovely pants here.
They're nice... contemporary.
A gusset in the old pants,
new pants with alterations.
Bada-bing, bada-bing.
I can let you have the whole deal
for 30 bucks.
-Available when?
-MICK: Well, I got your measurements.
I could have them for you tomorrow.
-You got a deal.
-Deal? Satisfaction, Mr. Simpson?
MR. SIMPSON: Very satisfied.
-I'll see you, Mr. Berman.
-BERMAN: See you.
Ya blimp. So, what did you sell him?
Uh, a gusset for his old pair
and the 48s off this rack.
-A gusset?
-I thought I'd save him a couple of bucks.
You want Mr. Dirigible to die
a rich man, Mike?
-That's your life's ambition?
-MICK: I just thought--
Why are you here?
To help Berman make a living.
Now, I thought--
If the man's a candidate
for several pairs of pants,
several pairs of pants
is what we sell him!
It's my mistake.
BERMAN: Don't make any more, Mr. Gusset.
If you want to do charity,
go work on a telethon.
-Here, we go for profit.
-All right.
Here. Go get me a lamb-kabob
at the Greek's.
-Lemon?
-Yeah!
Oh. Order from the old man.
Sometimes he forgets to collect.
Yes, sir.
(car horn honks)
-STAN: I mean, if you mind.
-I said I don't mind.
I get ants in my pants sitting over there.
-Sarge, will you just drive?
-Yeah.
-Nice pep in these new units.
-Yeah, they went back to the V-8s.
(tires screeching)
Did you see that?
-You see what that guy just did?
-Yeah.
Yeah. Run the plates on that guy, Joe.
Jerk's a menace.
JOE: You know, Sarge,
we were kind of close there.
No offense, but did you ever think of
using your glasses when you drive?
Just for reading. Why?
(computer beeps)
No reason.
YRX-247. That's an '82 Pontiac, dark blue.
Which ain't the guy in front of us.
What I tell you, Joe? Guy's rolling.
-(siren wailing)
-(tire screeching)
Ah! Sarge. Sarge, no!
All right, freeze! That's it!
Don't move! No more moving!
I never thought
I'd get in touch with him in time!
-Wasn't that lucky?
-(giggles)
You know, if your nephew and Mrs. B.
want to come to the presentation,
that's great, Mr. Biomonte.
But I'm afraid they'll have to take
their own transportation.
She can take a cab,
but he goes everywhere with me.
-Joseph.
-Uh, the contest rules say that
a companion's ixnayed. Okay, Mr. Dugan?
The limousine ride's actually
part of the prize.
-Your nephew's not a prizewinner.
-I'll follow right behind you, Joe.
-Presentation ceremony, Neal.
-NEAL: Yes, sir.
Look at that, a colored driver.
MAN: Come on.
Just between us, fellas, I...
is there any way I could take
a friend along on this cruise
instead of the wife?
Let me be the heavy with her, Joe.
I'll tell her the other
ticket fell through.
Yeah, 'cause two weeks on
a boat with that battleaxe,
-I'm gonna get a heart attack.
-Very doable.
So, you drew my name off
a Vegas plane list, huh?
That was it, right?
Yeah, 'cause I'm not listed anywhere,
you know.
I'm-I'm not even in the phone book.
It was either off a plane list
or a warrant.
What's that supposed to mean?
You're way too modest, Joey.
You say you're not listed anyplace.
Your name is on five different wants.
Listen, I-I'm getting a sick feeling.
It's a pop, Joey.
-Are you kidding?
-Would we kid you, Joey?
-You have the right to remain silent.
-Unbelievable.
If you give up that right,
anything you say can
and will be used against you.
I'm sick. Can I have a drink?
Pay attention to the man, Joey.
He's telling you what you won.
You have the right
to speak with an attorney.
Your Honor, Mr. Jackson's accused
of stealing goods worth three dollars
in order to buy necessities
for his family.
They're at the shantytown
by the freight yards.
The living situation is precarious.
Mr. Jackson's family needs him.
I strongly urge a recognizance release.
I'm looking at the probationer's report
right here, Ms. Davenport.
Specific recommendation
against recognizance
because the man has no address.
It's because the man has no address
that he's here in the first place,
Your Honor.
The family was subletting.
The lessor absconded with a rent--
All right, how about no time
on a guilty plea?
He can't plead, Your Honor.
There's a matter
of an old parole situation.
Look, we can't turn ourselves inside out
on a single case.
-Five hundred dollars. Cash or bond.
-(gavel bangs)
-What's going on?
-They're holding you over.
Oh, no, Your Honor, please!
My wife and my babies.
Please, you got to help me.
They don't have nobody out there
to take care of them!
Your Honor, please!
Yes, I know in order to do your job
you need a viable system of distribution.
Why can't the man just walk down
to your office and pick up the check?
Ain't that viable enough for you people?
We got this situation, Lynn.
I was hoping you might do a story.
The man is living in a box
with his entire family!
Does that sound like
a welfare cheat to you?
A family, four little ones,
living in that Boxville.
The rent got screwed up.
They can't get welfare without an address.
And now the city won't provide housing
without separating the family.
Well, the husband is in jail. He can't
make bail on a three dollar arrest.
So you got his wife,
his kids living down there...
BOTH: ...in a cardboard box.
Interested enough to take
a camera crew down there?
-(telephone ringing)
-All right.
-LUCY: Hill Street station.
-Hm?
LUCY: Have you asked him
-to turn down the radio?
-Oh, Judas,
and they promised
the captain's rankings by 2:00.
Are you surprised, Howard?
When was this department ever on time?
-Well, you take waiting better than I do.
-I've had nine years' training.
-You should be ashamed of yourself.
-I am. I hate myself.
You get her out of here, will ya?
I'm gonna bust an ulcer.
Phil, we didn't get a chance yet.
-Henry Goldblume.
-How you doing?
-You got a second?
-Yeah.
I want to ask you about
a Midtown homicide guy,
-Detective Torriello?
-Giovanni?
HENRY: Working the Gina Sgrignoli killing?
Whoa! Henry Goldblume.
-She was my girlfriend.
-Right. I'm sorry.
Can you tell me anything
about what Torriello's got?
-Not really, Lieutenant.
-HENRY: What do you mean, "not really"?
I mean, I'm not really sure.
I mean, but plus,
aren't you supposed to stay clear?
HENRY: Hey, listen.
Listen, I've been getting
handled for three weeks, shut out.
They shot her down in front of me.
I'd appreciate it if you know anything,
I'd appreciate it if you'd say.
I think they got a guy on ice
at the Hotel Worth.
Torriello's down there every day.
-Don't get stupid with it, Lieutenant.
-Thanks.
What the hell are you
doing here, Lieutenant?
Torriello, if you don't let me in,
I swear to God, I'll do violence.
(sighs)
Visitors!
Sonny Murdo, Lieutenant Goldblume.
Hi ya, Lieutenant.
-Sonny.
-From where's he from?
Don't recognize me, huh, Sonny?
Geez, (chuckles) did we talk already?
I'm seeing so many people.
He was at the hit, Sonny,
sitting at the table.
No kidding.
You know,
it's not about personalities, Lieutenant.
Let him ask you what he wants to know.
Absolutely, sure.
Why was she killed?
Be honest with you,
I couldn't tell you, Lieutenant.
I know the hit came
from Sgrignoli's brother.
-Brother's in soomers 17 to--
-Who hired you?
Freddy Charles.
I got $1,500 in front,
six grand at the whack.
TORRIELLO: Charles is a contract guy.
So, what did they tell you about Gina?
She was a young one.
Said if I had a clear shot
to put one in her mouth.
I guess 'cause she was talking, see?
He's just a button guy,
but he's given us some
pretty decent stuff.
-How they piece the work out.
-How long?
How long what?
When did you make the bust?
How long you been sitting on him?
I grabbed him the next morning.
The morning after the hit.
Come on, let go.
You know how many snitches got rousted,
how many favors got called in
the past three weeks?
Lieutenant, you've been going with a girl
with nothing but bad connections.
Plus, you're doing pretty good
with the clothes and the rest of it.
Nobody knew where you stood,
why you're asking the questions.
I loved her!
Tell you the truth, that's what I said.
That it was probably
just that you loved her.
But we figured your captain
had the best read.
He knew what to give you.
-What do you mean?
-We kept Captain Furillo apprised.
We figured he'd bring you up to speed
when he thought you ought to know.
I'm sorry, kid.
(sighs)
Come on, forget the water.
We're moving in a straight line here.
-You okay, Sarge?
-Uh... gas. Come on, over here.
-Grand theft auto, resisting arrest.
-"A" collar, guy.
-And the bonus was, we lived.
-Oh? Was Stan the wheelman?
A regular Barney Oldfield.
-I got pain here.
-LUCY: What's wrong?
-(groans)
-Stan.
-JOE: Sarge.
-I can't breathe!
-Stan.
-JOE: Easy, easy, easy.
-LUCY: Call an ambulance, Natalie!
-(groans)
It's like-- it's like a fist.
Never mind the ambulance.
Joe, drive him to Mercy.
All right, we got a unit outside.
Just take it easy.
Come on, here we go, Sarge.
(Joe grunts)
-Come on. Stay with us.
-A little better now.
-Stay with us.
-OFFICER 1: You're gonna be fine, Sarge.
-We'll go in separate cars.
-I'll bring it around.
You bastard.
I never even thought to ask you.
I mean, you are my friend.
I figured if you knew anything,
you'd tell me.
Henry, there are reasons
why family isn't apprised
till after disposition.
-Don't quote policy to me.
-(sighs)
And what would you have done with it?
What would you have done
if I had told you?
I'd have known.
And when you found out that
they had pleaded him down
in order to get information,
what would you have done with that?
Gone to the papers? Gone after him?
Then what kind of friend
would I have turned out to be?
-Probably would have cost you your job.
-You don't get to choose my life!
-I won't forgive you for this.
-I've got to get to the hospital.
Did you happen to notice
Stan Jablonski on the way in?
Hear anything good, Luce?
Why don't you mind your own business?
LUCY: Woman in the locker room!
No ranks.
I'm speaking for a lot of people
getting real tired of waiting
for you to get off this thing.
Sick of you being rude and taking shots
and sick of walking on eggs.
You are not the first person
who has ever had a loss,
and it doesn't give you
the right to stop being human.
Woman coming out!
(siren wailing)
Hey, fellas, you like the suits, huh?
Hey, take a look at the name
in the label in the jacket.
-You recognize that famous designer?
-Yeah, I heard of that.
Anywhere else downtown,
they charge an extra $100.
I ain't asking how you can afford
to sell them 80 cheap, man.
Good. Don't ask.
See they don't steal nothing.
BERMAN: What could I do for you, fellas?
-Hal Berman?
-Uh-huh.
We're associates of Lieutenant Flaherty
from Midtown, Hal.
-Hey. Why don't you guys beat it?
-Why is that?
-'Cause I said so.
-Hey, take it easy!
Man, take it easy.
-Hey. Them's customers, you know?
-Hal, look at me.
We're working on those suits got stolen
from Jason's Clothiers.
Same case as Lieutenant Flaherty.
Lieutenant sent us for some more evidence.
What size evidence you need?
-Uh, 42 long with a 34 inseam.
-MAN 2: And a 40 regular.
The 42-34 will be a charcoal suit,
plus sports coat and slacks.
Hey, look, fellas,
I'm-I'm trying to be cooperative,
but this is getting to be
a lot of free garments now.
Hal, you're moving hot clothes
out of here.
Now, plan "A" is you can alter
some with our measurements,
or plan "B" is you can take a bust.
-"A." Plan "A"?
-Right. "A" is always the best.
They... they boosted a nice bolt
of pinstripe flannel.
-I'll custom-make your suit.
-Hal, I got a christening on Friday.
You'll have it.
I'll get the material.
You come back tomorrow afternoon.
-Hal, you're a prince.
-It's my pleasure.
It's a disgrace what they
get away with in this city!
I know. Uh, Mr. Berman, um,
you think I could take my hour now?
BERMAN: You don't get paid, you know.
This ain't United Way.
So alcohol's included?
No particular reason.
I just wanted to know the range
of what you were checking for.
(knocking on door)
Yeah, right. Thanks.
-Mick?
-Uh...
we got some dirty cops at Midtown.
They just came into my undercover.
-They're shaking down the owner.
-They make you?
I couldn't put a name
on either one of them.
Possible they were impersonating cops
just to run the shakedown?
They had the shields.
I was gonna take the place tomorrow.
I think we ought to postpone the bust
and see what we can get on these guys.
Okay, I'll have IAD
run some photos for you.
MALE ANCHOR (on TV):
...from Lynn Williams. Lynn?
WILLIAMS: Were you there
when the officers arrested your husband?
No, they came and told me about it.
Are you frightened with your husband
in jail, being here alone?
He kept watch through the night.
How long can you survive
like this, Mrs. Jackson?
I don't know.
LUCY: They just don't
have any place to go.
-Ray, Howard?
-Interview results, Frank?
-Uh, end of suspense, Raymondo.
-I probably spoke too fast again.
I tried to measure my breathing.
(chuckles)
Uh, could you give us just a minute,
Howard?
Oh, absolutamente.
-Fourth.
-Fourth? Really?
Yeah, maybe this time's the charm.
Fourth, Frank?
Thank you.
Rarefied air, Ray? Upper half?
-Fourth, Howard. Fourth.
-Fourth?
(chuckles) Is that so?
(Frank clears throat)
Fifteenth.
Fifteenth, Frank?
Judas, there only were 15.
I don't know how to sugar
the pill for you, Howard.
Did they give a reason?
-"Poor cognizance of command structure."
-HOWARD: What?
Frank, I take the chain of command
as gospel.
I would no more usurp a superior's
prerogative in the field than--
Did you happen to talk about the tank?
Going to Daniels for funding?
Maybe they thought that was out of line.
Well, if that's their idea
of command prerogative, uh...
-who initials a purchase order.
-I'm sorry, Howard.
Well, leave it to the bureaucrats, Frank.
They'll be fighting this war
for urban survival
with snub-nosed organizational charts.
(siren wailing)
WOMAN (on P.A.): Dr. Hammil.
Dr. C. Hammil, please report to O.R. stat.
-Dr. Hammil.
-Doc, he's family.
You have no cardiac irregularities,
no enzyme changes.
We're 98 percent sure
you didn't have an attack.
All of which I could have told you.
It's angina. I'm out of here.
You're not out of here.
I want another 24 hours' observation,
see if we want to change
the regime on your medication.
-What's the matter with the old regime?
-Sarge.
I agree this is probably just a slightly
more intense episode
of what you've been living with
for the last six years,
but it can also be a warning.
I want you here long enough
to rule that out.
Okay, Dr. Jablonski?
-Will you not give me a hard time?
-Yeah.
See you in the morning.
You are a very tough customer.
Eh, enzyme blenders!
It's all a bunch of gobbledygook.
Uh, Mick, here.
This is what I want you
to do for me tomorrow.
"Collect warrants and Division memos.
Place on clipboard at podium."
Yeah, it all comes in a packet
about a quarter to 7:00.
It's just in case the sawbones
is late in signing me out.
-He said they're keeping you here!
-In a pig's eye.
Mick, hell or high water, I'm out of here.
I'm at that podium tomorrow a.m.
WOMAN (on P.A.):
All visitors, please be advised...
-What?
-You are a pistol.
I am a pistol.
Couple of seconds there in the squad room,
I thought I was out of rounds.
(sighs) I'll call you later on.
Yeah, I don't know what time
the switchboard closes.
-Thanks for coming, Mick.
-Hmm.
(monitor beeps rapidly)
Ah, it's on a fritz.
Damn thing does that all the time.
-Good night.
Change?
I should have never said anything.
I was totally out of line.
-What are you talking about?
-Goldblume.
Somebody had to say something.
I mean, I like the guy, Joe.
I wasn't looking to put
my finger in his face.
It's not like he hasn't been
having a rough time.
Luce, you just said
what everyone's been thinking
for the last of couple weeks.
Now either he can take it,
or the hell with him.
Great. So now he's not gonna talk to me
-for the rest of my life.
-(Henry clears throat)
HENRY: Good night, Luce.
MICK: He was feisty. He was looking good.
-Come sit with us, have a beer.
-No, I got to get home.
-Spread the word around for me?
-Yeah.
-See you in the morning.
-MICK: Okay.
Is that the guy that bites?
Belker. The best undercover
I've ever seen.
I hear he's working that outlet
for the clothes they stole from Julio's.
That where it's from?
That store in Midtown?
How's he doing with that?
Garibaldi and I were supposed to do backup
and arrest tomorrow,
but it was postponed.
Are you writing a book?
(scoffs) No.
I was remembering how much I like you.
It was one night, Dugan.
Don't make it Romeo and Juliet.
-That's all it was? Just once?
-Just once.
How about we double our quota, Patsy?
Ply me with a little more hooch.
We'll talk.
-PHIL: Hey, guys.
-Hey.
What do you think?
-Phil?
-J.D.: Mm-hmm.
Sweet pickup on that ginzo shylock.
-Guy reminds me of me.
-NEAL: Meaning what?
Meaning I like him, okay?
But I don't exactly trust him.
Hmm.
-How about it?
-How about what?
How 'bout you tell me
what you've been sitting on all day.
You know, if they test for codeine
in those samples,
I'm coming up positive.
(hisses) For your knee.
I thought you had a script.
It's not from the department doc.
He wanted to take me off the streets.
I told him the knee was better.
Started using my own guy.
They don't want you to work
the street behind painkillers.
It screws up their liability.
Hey, Neal, come on. Cheer up.
Worst case, we're talking disability.
We're talking winters in Antigua.
Hey, look, man, I don't like Antigua,
and I don't like beaches,
and I don't like handouts.
-I like working.
-That's a sick attitude.
MALE ANCHOR (on TV):
...very happy to present that money now
to Mr. and Mrs. Pablo Jackson.
Thank you. It has indeed
been an extraordinary day
for the Jackson family.
But it's also an extraordinary day
for the life of this city.
There are those, of course,
who say the big city has no...
-BOBBY: Thanks, Ray.
-That's a good woman.
Don't I know it?
Felt like we worked pretty good together
ourselves for being rusty.
Worked okay.
WILLIAMS (on TV):
A check in the amount of $840.
PABLO (on TV): Thank you.
WILLIAMS: What would you like to say
to our viewing audience who contributed?
I'd like to say thank you.
God bless you, all of you.
This is gonna go for our first month,
last month, security.
WILLIAMS: All for the apartment?
Couple of dollars
for Donald's birthday cake.
I also understand another
generous citizen put a--
(television turns off)
Makes it look easy, doesn't it?
Look, here's a poor person.
Let's all pitch in and help.
(sighs) A few hours later, poof.
He's not poor anymore.
Am I sensing a bit
of jealousy here, counselor?
Are you saying Miss Williams
did more for your client
-than you could have done?
-(chuckles)
I just wonder if that kind
of sentimental quick fix
doesn't make people more impatient
with the problems that can't be solved
between the 6:00
and the eleven o'clock news.
Make them resent the people
who still have the problems
the next day.
But, yes, I am very happy
for the Jacksons.
(telephone rings)
-Furillo.
-It was just angina.
I know. You already told me, Stan.
Just don't be starting the roll call
without me, all right?
There's nobody there to start
the roll call without you.
Yeah, well, just don't be thinking
of Bates or nothing.
-How's the food?
-Criminal, awful.
Sleep well, then.
(chuckles) You too.
(closing theme playing)